https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-14394 (#7068)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: governance/policy_generator.adoc

[#policy-generator-configuration]
== Policy Generator configuration structure

> The Policy Generator is a Kustomize generator plug-in that is configured with a manifest of the `PolicyGenerator` kind and `policy.open-cluster-management.io/v1` API version. Continue reading to learn about the configuration structure:

Reviewer: You seem to have a step/action for the user to complete. How about changing this transition to capture that? 

```suggestion
The Policy Generator is a Kustomize generator plug-in that is configured with a manifest of the `PolicyGenerator` kind and `policy.open-cluster-management.io/v1` API version. To learn about the configuration structure, complete the following actions: 
```

Author: @jc-berger my intention is to let the user know the capabilities and how they can use it, but not really anything for them to complete.

> - To use the plug-in, start by adding a `generators` section in a `kustomization.yaml` file. View the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To use the plug-in, add a `generators` section in a `kustomization.yaml` file. View the following example:
```

  key2: value2
----

- Use the `object-templates-raw` manifest to automatically generate a `ConfigurationPolicy` resource with the content you add. See the following examples:

> ** Create a manifest file called `manifest.yaml` with the following syntax:

Reviewer 2: @dockerymick I know I suggested this sentence, but do you have any ideas on how to say that the file doesn't have to be called `manifest.yaml` but it's just used as an example? The file can be called anything.

+
[source,yaml]
----

> object-templates-raw: | {{- range (lookup "v1" "ConfigMap" "my-namespace" "").items }} - complianceType: musthave objectDefinition: kind: ConfigMap apiVersion: v1 metadata: name: {{ .metadata.name }} namespace: {{ .metadata.namespace }} labels: i-am-from: template {{- end }}

Reviewer 2: @dockerymick it looks like the new lines were lost when copying it over from my comment. Could you please try fixing that?

Author: Great catch, my bad.

  key2: value2
----

- Use the `object-templates-raw` manifest to automatically generate a `ConfigurationPolicy` resource with the content you add. See the following examples:

** For example, create a manifest file with the following syntax:

+
[source,yaml]
----
object-templates-raw: |
  {{- range (lookup "v1" "ConfigMap" "my-namespace" "").items }}
  - complianceType: musthave
    objectDefinition:
      kind: ConfigMap
      apiVersion: v1
      metadata:
        name: {{ .metadata.name }}
        namespace: {{ .metadata.namespace }}
        labels:
          i-am-from: template

> {{- end }}

Reviewer 2: Could you please line up the indentation of this line with the `{{- range` section?

> [source,yaml]
> ----
> object-templates-raw: |
>   {{- range (lookup "v1" "ConfigMap" "my-namespace" "").items }}
>   - complianceType: musthave
>     objectDefinition:
>       kind: ConfigMap
>       apiVersion: v1
>       metadata:
>         name: {{ .metadata.name }}
>         namespace: {{ .metadata.namespace }}
>         labels:
>           i-am-from: template
> {{- end }}

Author: ```suggestion
[source,yaml]
----
object-templates-raw: |
  {{- range (lookup "v1" "ConfigMap" "my-namespace" "").items }}
  - complianceType: musthave
    objectDefinition:
      kind: ConfigMap
      apiVersion: v1
      metadata:
        name: {{ .metadata.name }}
        namespace: {{ .metadata.namespace }}
        labels:
          i-am-from: template
  {{- end }}
```

- Use the `object-templates-raw` manifest to automatically generate a `ConfigurationPolicy` resource with the content you add. See the following examples:

** For example, create a manifest file with the following syntax:

+
[source,yaml]
----
object-templates-raw: |
  {{- range (lookup "v1" "ConfigMap" "my-namespace" "").items }}

>   - complianceType: musthave
>   objectDefinition:
>     kind: ConfigMap
>     apiVersion: v1
>     metadata:
>       name: {{ .metadata.name }}
>       namespace: {{ .metadata.namespace }}
>     labels: i-am-from: template {{- end }}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - complianceType: musthave
    objectDefinition:
      kind: ConfigMap
      apiVersion: v1
      metadata:
        name: {{ .metadata.name }}
        namespace: {{ .metadata.namespace }}
        labels:
          i-am-from: template
{{- end }}
```

policies:
  - name: config-data
    manifests:

>       - path: <1>
>     object-templates-raw: | 
>       <your_content> <2>

Author: ```suggestion
      - path: <1>
      object-templates-raw: | 
        <your_content> <2>
```

----
<1> Path to your file.

> <2> Your content is used in the generated `ConfigurationPolicy` resource and added as an entry for the `policy-templates` of a policy. The `object-templates-raw` generated `ConfigurationPolicy` has the same name as a manifest generated from a `ConfigurationPolicy` that has no specified name.

Author: @mprahl is this the correct syntax?

Reviewer 2: @dockerymick `- path: <1>` is right, but the file contents of file referenced in the path is what has `object-templates-raw: |` in it, not in the `PolicyGenerator` configuration file.

Author: I'm a bit confused, I'm not sure what needs to be updated after reading your comment. Do I need to update the description of the second callout?

Reviewer 2: @dockerymick something like this:

```
- Use the `object-templates-raw` manifest to automatically generate a `ConfigurationPolicy` with the content you add. See the following example:

Create a manifest file called `manifest.yaml` with the following syntax:

[source,yaml]
----
object-templates-raw: |
  {{- range (lookup "v1" "ConfigMap" "my-namespace" "").items }}
  - complianceType: musthave
    objectDefinition:
      kind: ConfigMap
      apiVersion: v1
      metadata:
        name: {{ .metadata.name }}
        namespace: {{ .metadata.namespace }}
      labels:
        i-am-from: template
  {{- end }}
----

Then create a PolicyGenerator configuration file such as:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: policy.open-cluster-management.io/v1
kind: PolicyGenerator
metadata:
  name: config-data-policies
policyDefaults:
  namespace: policies
  policySets: []
policies:
  - name: config-data
    manifests:
      - path: manifest.yaml <1>
----
```

  - name: config-data
    manifests:

>       - path: object-templates-raw: | 

Reviewer 2: This seems to be a preexisting syntax error. The intention is that the `path` value is a path to a file. The file would contain the contents of:

```yaml
object-templates-raw: |
  <your content> <1>
```

| `policyDefaults.evaluationInterval`
| Optional

> | Specifies the frequency for a policy to be evaluated when it is in a particular compliance state. Use the parameters `compliant` and `noncompliant`. The default value for the `compliant` and `noncompliant` parameters is `watch` to leverage Kubernetes API watches instead of polling the Kubernetes API server.

Author: Related to https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-14388

When managed clusters have low resources, the evaluation interval can be set to long polling intervals to reduce CPU and memory usage on the Kubernetes API and policy controller. These are in the format of durations. For example, `1h25m3s` represents 1 hour, 25 minutes, and 3 seconds. These can also be set to `never` to avoid evaluating the policy after it is in a particular compliance state.

| `policyDefaults.evaluationInterval.compliant`
| Optional

> | Specifies the evaluation frequency for a compliant policy.  If you want to poll the intervals, set this parameter to `10s`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Specifies the evaluation frequency for a compliant policy. If you want to enable the old polling behavior, set this parameter to `10s`.
```

Author: Thoughts?
```suggestion
| Specifies the evaluation frequency for a compliant policy. If you want to enable the previous polling behavior, set this parameter to `10s`.
```

Reviewer 2: @dockerymick yes, that's better. Thank you.

| `policyDefaults.evaluationInterval.noncompliant`
| Optional

> | Specifies the evaluation frequency for a non-compliant policy. If you want to poll the intervals, set this parameter to `10s`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Specifies the evaluation frequency for a non-compliant policy.  If you want to enable the old polling behavior, set this parameter to `10s`.
```

Author: ```suggestion
| Specifies the evaluation frequency for a non-compliant policy. If you want to enable the previous polling behavior, set this parameter to `10s`.
```

| `policies[].manifests[].path`
| Required
a| Path to a single file, a flat directory of files, or a Kustomize directory relative to the `kustomization.yaml` file. If the directory is a Kustomize directory, the generator runs Kustomize against the directory before generating the policies. If there is a requirement to process Helm charts for the Kustomize directory, set `POLICY_GEN_ENABLE_HELM` to `true` in the environment where the policy generator is running to enable Helm for the Policy Generator.

The following manifests are supported:

> - Non-root policy type manifests such as `IamPolicy`, `CertificatePolicy`, and `ConfigurationPolicy` that have a `Policy` suffix. The previous manifests are not modified except for patches and are directly added as a `policy-templates` entry of the `Policy` resource.

Author: In @mprahl comment on the previous PR, he mentioned adding Gatekeeper constraints and Dale agreed: https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/pull/6978/files#r1793687939

> - Non-root policy type manifests such as `IamPolicy`, `CertificatePolicy`, and `ConfigurationPolicy` that have a `Policy` suffix. The previous manifests are not modified except for patches and are directly added as a `policy-templates` entry of the `Policy` resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Non-root policy type manifests such as `IamPolicy`, `CertificatePolicy`, and `ConfigurationPolicy` that have a `Policy` suffix. The previous manifests are not modified except for patches and are directly added as a `policy-templates` entry of the `Policy` resource. Gatekeeper constraints are also directly included if `informGatekeeperPolicies` is set to `false`.
```

| `policies[].manifests[].path`
| Required
a| Path to a single file, a flat directory of files, or a Kustomize directory relative to the `kustomization.yaml` file. If the directory is a Kustomize directory, the generator runs Kustomize against the directory before generating the policies. If there is a requirement to process Helm charts for the Kustomize directory, set `POLICY_GEN_ENABLE_HELM` to `true` in the environment where the policy generator is running to enable Helm for the Policy Generator.

The following manifests are supported:

> - Non-root policy type manifests such as `IamPolicy`, `CertificatePolicy`, and `ConfigurationPolicy` that have a `Policy` suffix. The previous manifests are not modified except for patches and are directly added as a `policy-templates` entry of the `Policy` resource. Gatekeeper constraints are also directly included if `informGatekeeperPolicies` is set to `false`.

Author: Since IAM policy is removed, should it be mentioned here?

Reviewer 2: Good call. It can be removed for 2.12.

Reviewer 3: @mprahl Do we need to mention OperatorPolicy here? Or is it considered as part of ConfigurationPolicy?

Reviewer 2: Good catch @drkho!  @dockerymick could you please add `OperatorPolicy` to that list as well?

| `policies[].manifests[].path`
| Required
a| Path to a single file, a flat directory of files, or a Kustomize directory relative to the `kustomization.yaml` file. If the directory is a Kustomize directory, the generator runs Kustomize against the directory before generating the policies. If there is a requirement to process Helm charts for the Kustomize directory, set `POLICY_GEN_ENABLE_HELM` to `true` in the environment where the policy generator is running to enable Helm for the Policy Generator.

The following manifests are supported:

> - Non-root policy type manifests such as `CertificatePolicy`, and `ConfigurationPolicy` that have a `Policy` suffix. The previous manifests are not modified except for patches and are directly added as a `policy-templates` entry of the `Policy` resource. Gatekeeper constraints are also directly included if `informGatekeeperPolicies` is set to `false`.

Author: Adding the link to @drkho comment so that it isn't lost: https://github.com/stolostron/rhacm-docs/pull/7068/files#r1805433783

@mprahl

> - Non-root policy type manifests such as `CertificatePolicy`, and `ConfigurationPolicy` that have a `Policy` suffix. The previous manifests are not modified except for patches and are directly added as a `policy-templates` entry of the `Policy` resource. Gatekeeper constraints are also directly included if `informGatekeeperPolicies` is set to `false`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Non-root policy type manifests such as `CertificatePolicy`, `ConfigurationPolicy`, and `OperatorPolicy` that have a `Policy` suffix. The previous manifests are not modified except for patches and are directly added as a `policy-templates` entry of the `Policy` resource. Gatekeeper constraints are also directly included if `informGatekeeperPolicies` is set to `false`.
```

* Refer link:https://open-policy-agent.github.io/gatekeeper/website/docs/[Gatekeeper] for more details.
* Refer to the link:https://kustomize.io/[Kustomize documentation]. 
* Return to the xref:../governance/third_party_policy_intro.adoc#integrate-third-party-policy-controllers[Integrate third-party policy controllers] documentation.

> //line 222 ConfigurationPolicy API doesn't exist: See the ConfigurationPolicy API documentation for more details.

Reviewer 2: When I said API, I meant the `Configuration policy YAML table`.

Author: ```suggestion
```
